feat: Add Grid component (#1646)
Workday/canvas-kit: modules/react/layout/stories/Grid.stories.mdx

import {GridStyle} from './examples/PropTables.splitprops.tsx';
import {GridStyleProps} from '../lib/utils/grid';
import {GridItemStyleProps} from '../lib/utils/gridItem';

<Meta title="Components/Containers/Layout/Grid" component={Grid} />

# Canvas Kit Grid

`Grid` is a low-level layout component that provides a common, ergonomic API for building
two-dimensional layouts (rows and columns) with
[CSS Grid](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Grids).

If you want to see how Flexbox and Grid can
[work together](https://css-tricks.com/css-grid-replace-flexbox/).

## Installation

```sh
yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-react
```

## Usage

### Basic Example

Below is a basic layout built with `Grid`. We created four components: `Header`, `SideBar`,
`BodyContent` and `Footer`. We also used those names for their respective `gridArea` props. Then we
can use those names in the parent component, `UIExample`, to organize the UI however we want. This
allows the parent container to control how its children render. For page layouts, Workday typically
uses a 12 column grid. In the example below, the Sidebar is 3 columns and the Body Content is 9
columns.

> > Note: You can learn more about CSS Grid's `gridArea` and `gridTemplateAreas` >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: You can learn more about CSS Grid's `gridArea` and `gridTemplateAreas`
```

Reviewer: Small formatting issue there.

> [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/grid-template-areas).

<ExampleCodeBlock code={UIExample} />

### Using Grid Items

> In the example above we nested `Grid` components to created our layout, and we controlled the layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above we nested `Grid` components to create our layout, and we controlled the layout
```

structure from the top-level `Grid` container. That's a perfectly valid approach. However, we can
also use `Grid.Item` components to allow child cells to have more control. While any direct child of
a `Grid` component is implicitly a grid item, `Grid.Item` provides special CSS Grid Item style props
that allow you to have more control over how and where each item renders.

To demonstrate this behavior, the example below has a `Grid` container with nine cells. The eight
`soap500` cells are `Grid` components, and the `peach300` cell is a `Grid.Item`. We can use the
`Grid.Item` style props `gridRowStart` and `gridColumnStart` to manipulate where the cell renders.
You can use the `Row` and `Column` buttons to manipulate these props and see the `Grid.Item`'s
position adjust accordingly.

> Note: This example is solely intended to demonstrate the `Grid.Item`'s functionality and is NOT
> considered an accessibility best practice. Visually reordering content does not change the order

> > it is read by a screen reader or the tab order. You can learn more about CSS Grid Layout and
> > Accessibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Accessibility
```
```suggestion
> it is read by a screen reader or the tab order. You can learn more about CSS Grid layout and
> accessibility
```

> [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/CSS_Grid_Layout_and_Accessibility).

<ExampleCodeBlock code={GridLayoutInteractive} />

> In the second example below, we have a `Grid` container. It contains two rows with one having seven
> elements and the other has two elements. This example is to show how a user can use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at another `Grid.Item` example. Below, we have a `Grid` container with two rows: one with seven elements and the other with two elements. This example is to show how a user can use the
```

> `<Grid.Item/>` component to wrap a `<Grid/>` component. This would allow a user to have access to
> the child props of `<Grid.Item/>` to place a layout where needed. The row with elements 3 - 7 is put
> before the 1 & 2 elements since that layout is wrapped by the `<Grid.Item/>` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<Grid.Item/>` component to wrap a `Grid` component. This would allow a user to have access to
the child props of `Grid.Item` to place a layout where needed. The row with elements 3 - 7 is put
before the 1 & 2 elements since that layout is wrapped by the `Grid.Item` component.
```

Reviewer: Typically, in text blocks we use inline code blocks with capitalized text for component names in our docs: `Grid` and `Grid.Item` without adding any markup brackets.

not a matter of choosing `Grid` _or_ `Flex` _or_ `Box`, but rather deciding how to use them
together. They are intended to be complementary not exclusionary. With that said, here are some
general rules for when to use which:

- Use `Grid` for building **two-dimensional** layouts (rows AND columns).
- Use `Flex` for building **one-dimensional** layouts (a row OR a column).
- Use `Box` for generic containers that don't need CSS Flexbox or Grid.

## Components

### Grid

Grid is a container component for creating two-dimensional layouts with CSS Grid. It has special
style props that map to CSS Grid style properties to provide a common, ergonomic API for building
layouts.

#### Usage

```tsx
<Grid grid gridTemplateColumns="1fr 2fr 1fr" gridGap={space.s}>
  <div>Implicit grid item 1</div>
  <div>Implicit grid item 2</div>
  <div>Implicit grid item 3</div>
</Grid>
```

#### Props

As previously mentioned, `Grid` is built on top of `Box` and has access to all its props, including
[grid container properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Grid_Layout#the_grid_container)
through style props as well. Here are the grid container props:

> <ArgsTable of={GridStyleProps} />

Reviewer: Weird that these style props aren't rendering.

### Grid.Item

`Grid.Item` is a subcomponent of Grid. It has specific grid item style props that map to CSS Grid
Item properties. This allows you greater control over how child components render in your layout.

#### Usage

```tsx
<Grid gridGap={space.s}>
  <Grid.Item gridColumn="1 / span 2">First item</Grid.Item>
  <Grid.Item gridRow="1 / span 2">Second item</Grid.Item>
  <Grid.Item gridColumn="1 / span 2" gridRow="2">
    Third item
  </Grid.Item>
</Grid>
```

#### Props

> <ArgsTable of={GridItemStyleProps} />

Reviewer: Weird that these style props aren't rendering.

import {Meta, ArgsTable} from '@storybook/addon-docs';

import {Grid, GridItem} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/layout';
// examples
import {GridLayout} from './examples/Grid/GridLayout';
import {UIExample} from './examples/Grid/UIExample';
import {GridLayoutInteractive} from './examples/Grid/GridLayoutInteractive';
import {GridStyle} from './examples/PropTables.splitprops.tsx';
import {GridStyleProps} from '../lib/utils/grid';

<Meta title="Components/Containers/Layout/Grid" component={Grid} />

# Canvas Kit Grid

`Grid` is a two-dimensional layout system for the web. It lets you lay content out in rows and

> columns [CSS Grid](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Grids).

Author: Updated

If you want to see how Flexbox and Grid can
[work together](https://css-tricks.com/css-grid-replace-flexbox/).

## Installation

```sh
yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-react
```

> ## Examples

Author: Updated

> ### UI Layout Example

Author: Updated

This example showcases what a basic UI could look like utilzing Grid. In the below example, we have
created four elements (`Header`, `SideBar`, `BodyContent` and `Footer`). By giving each element a
`gridArea` name, the name can be used to organize the UI however you want. If you want more info on
how `gridArea` works with `gridTemplateAreas`,

> [see here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/grid-template-areas).

Author: Updated

<ExampleCodeBlock code={UIExample} />

### Rows and Columns

You can nest `Grid` components to build layouts with rows and columns. You can also nest `Grid`

> components within `<Grid.Item/>` components for even more possibilities.

Author: Updated

In the below example, we have a `Grid` container. It contains nine elements with one of them being
grey. This is a `<Grid.Item/>` component and has access to child specific props, the `<Grid/>`
component only has access to container props. This is to show what the `<Grid.Item/>` component
can&nbsp;do.

In the layout, the `<Grid.Item/>` component (grey element), has a `Row` and `Col` button. These
buttons are interactive and if you click the `Row` button, it will move the `<Grid.Item/>` element
between the rows and if you click the `Col` button, it will move it through the columns. These
buttons are updating `gridRowStart`(`grid-row-start` css grid property) and
`gridColumnStart`(`grid-column-start` css grid property). This is to showcase the child specific

> props for the `<Grid.Item/>` component.

Author: Updated

<ExampleCodeBlock code={GridLayoutInteractive} />

> **This is NOT best practice for accessibility reasons and we suggest against following this. This is

Reviewer 2: Unsure about the pattern we have within our docs but, what if we added a ⚠️ at the beginning on this sentence. When reading this on storybook despite it being bold, I'm finding that isn't making the warning feel like a warning

Author: Added!

> is merely to showcase the child specific props for the `<Grid.Item/>` component.⚠️**

Author: Agreed and updated

In the second example below, we have a `Grid` container. It contains two rows with one having seven
elements and the other has two elements. This example is to show how a user can use the
`<Grid.Item/>` component to wrap a `<Grid/>` component. This would allow a user to have access to
the child props of `<Grid.Item/>` to place a layout where needed. The row with elements 3 - 7 is put
before the 1 & 2 elements since that layout is wrapped by the `<Grid.Item/>` component.

<ExampleCodeBlock code={GridLayout} />

> ### Grid vs. Box
> 
> `Grid` is built with `Box` and has access to all `BoxProps`. The main differences between `Box` and
> `Grid` are:
> 
> - `Grid` is set to `display: grid` & `inline-grid` by default.
> - The `display` prop is limited to `grid` & `inline-grid` .
> - `Grid` has access to grid container properties.
> - `Grid.Item` has access to grid child properties.
> 
> In short, use `Grid` when you need a grid container to build layouts with CSS Grid, and use `Box`
> when you need a simple container. It's also important to note that `Grid` has no real opinion about
> how to build layouts outside of the CSS Grid spec. Its unopinonated nature allows it to be composed
> into many different components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Grid vs. Flex vs. Box

`Box` is the underlying layout component that `Grid` and `Flex` are built upon. So `Grid` and `Flex` have access to all `BoxProps`. But `Grid` and `Flex` have their own specific style props that map to CSS Grid and Flexbox properties, respectively. When using these components to build layouts, it is not a matter of choosing `Grid` _or_ `Flex` _or_ `Box`, but rather deciding how to use them together. They are intended to be complementary not exclusionary. With that said, here are some general rules for when to use which:

- Use `Grid` for building **two-dimensional** layouts (rows AND columns).
- Use `Flex` for building **one-dimensional** layouts (a row OR a column).
- Use `Box` for generic containers that don't need CSS Flexbox or Grid.
```

Author: Updated

> ## Grid Props

Reviewer: Let's follow the [Compound Component MDX Structure](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/discussions/1131) that James described.

```suggestion
## Components

### Grid

Grid is a container component for creating two-dimensional layouts with CSS Grid. It has special style props that map to CSS Grid style properties to provide a common, ergonomic API for building layouts.
```

Following that, we can add small `Usage` and `Props` sections. GitHub doesn't like MD code blocks in suggestions, so I'll add them below.

### Usage

```tsx
<Grid grid gridTemplateColumns="1fr 2fr 1fr" gridGap={space.s}>
  <div>Implicit grid item 1</div>
  <div>Implicit grid item 2</div>
  <div>Implicit grid item 3</div>
</Grid>
```

### Props

As previously mentioned, `Grid` is built on top of `Box` and has access to all its props, including
[grid container properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Grid_Layout#the_grid_container)
through style props as well. Here are the grid container props:

<ArgsTable of={GridStyleProps} />

> 

Reviewer: We'll follow the same format for `Grid.Item`.

### Grid.Item

`Grid.Item` is a subcomponent of Grid. It has specific grid item style props that map to CSS Grid Item properties. This allows you greater control over how child components render in your layout.

#### Usage

```tsx
<Grid gridGap={space.s}>
  <Grid.Item gridColumn="1 / span 2">First item</Grid.Item>
  <Grid.Item gridRow="1 / span 2">Second item</Grid.Item>
  <Grid.Item gridColumn="1 / span 2" gridRow="2">Third item</Grid.Item>
<Grid>
```

#### Props

<ArgsTable of={GridItemStyleProps} />

Author: Updated

> ### Grid Props (Exhaustive List)
> 
> <ArgsTable of={Grid} />

Reviewer: This is the same as the `GridStyleProps`, so we can remove it. 👍🏻 
```suggestion
```

Author: Updated
